# Analysis-of-Housing-Ownership
This study uses Support Vector Machines (SVMs) on Washington State census data to classify homes as owner-occupied or renter-occupied. By analyzing demographic and housing factors, it aims to identify key influences on occupancy. The goal is to inform urban planning and policies to improve housing affordability and reduce economic disparities.
The research aims to understand the pattern of dwellings ownership using the support vector models with the range of the linear, radial, and polynomial kernels techniques thanks to the provided data obtained from the US Census using IPUMS USA. The prescreening was designed to mark out the most senior person in each home as the most important individual and to order others under the senior's name. The incorporation of SVC analytical method which takes into consideration the testing accuracies as the measure of model performance was the focus of the analysis. Linear Kernel SVC proved its effectiveness presenting almost the same train and test accuracy 82.61 % and 82.81% for both normal and cross-validated models. On the other hand, in the next model, the test accuracy of RBF algorithm was 83.07% which gradually decreased later after implantation of cross-validation that was 82.07%. As regards training accuracy RBF – this value increased from 82.91% to 86.52%. A polynomial kernel scored 82.71% in testing, and after cross-validation, it also got a slight lift of 83.01% in test accuracy, while the training data we have the accuracy of 81.90% and after cross validation we have 83.01%. The investigated robust kernel support vector classification (RBF kernel SVC) proved to be the most effective method for housing occupancy recognition, considering the accuracy test it has achieved. This outcome testifies to the fact that kernel type choice is of substantial importance in support vector models and is also indicative of the gradient effect of cross-validation on model’s performance. The research will provide useful information of the application of machine learning techniques for authenticating the dwellers of premises which will be a great notion when we come to housing policy and urban planning.
